Initial commit (#540)
reflectoring/reflectoring.github.io: content/blog/2023/2023-10-25-spring-java-config.md

### Dependency Injection (DI)
Dependency Injection is the process where beans receive their dependencies from an external source, typically the Spring container, rather than creating them internally. With DI, our beans are ready to use, making our code cleaner, more modular, and easier to test. **Spring handles the 'injection' of dependencies, ensuring our beans work seamlessly together in our application recipe.**

👉 Learn more about beans, IoC, and DI in our article [Dependency Injection and Inversion of Control](http://localhost:1313/dependency-injection-and-inversion-of-control/).

## Types of Spring Configuration

Spring offers various types of configuration options, each tailored to specific needs. Let us get familiar with them.

### XML Configuration
It is the classic approach. Configure Spring beans and dependencies using XML files. Perfect for legacy systems and scenarios requiring external configuration.

> ### Annotation-based Configuration

Reviewer: Annotation-based, Java-based, Java Configuration with Annotation Scanning is all the same thing! They are not different types of Spring Configuration, they are all aspects of Spring's Java Config.

Author: OK. I have put these under single heading `Java-based Configuration` now.

It offers simplicity. Use annotations like `@Component`, `@Service`, and `@Repository` to define beans. Ideal for small to medium-sized projects, reducing XML clutter.

### Java-based Configuration
Configure beans with Java classes using `@Configuration` and `@Bean`. Promotes modularity and testability, making our codebase cleaner. We would focus on this configuration in this article.

### Java Configuration with Annotation Scanning
Combine Java-based configuration with annotation scanning for effortless bean discovery. Boost productivity in large projects. Manual Java-based configuration can be used in special scenarios where custom configuration and more control is needed. In the sections to follow, we will learn about customizations offered by Java-based configuration.

> ### Java Configuration with Property Files

Reviewer: Again, I don't think we should include this kind of configuration in this article. Instead, you can add a box that mentions it and links to https://reflectoring.io/spring-boot-configuration-properties/

Author: OK.

Author: Done. Added link.

Examples of using `@Bean`:

```java
public class Employee {
    // Employee properties and methods
}

public class Department {
    // Department properties and methods
}

@Configuration
@ComponentScan(basePackages = "io.reflectoring.javaconfig")
public class JavaConfigAppConfiguration {

    @Bean(name = "newEmployee", initMethod = "init", destroyMethod = "destroy")
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_PROTOTYPE)
    @Cacheable(cacheNames = "employeesCache")
    public Employee newEmployee(final String firstName, final String lastName) {
        return Employee.builder().firstName(firstName).lastName(lastName).build();
    }

    @Bean
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_PROTOTYPE)
    public Department newDepartment(final String deptName) {
        final Department department = Department.builder().name(deptName).build();
        acme().addDepartment(department);
        return department;
    }

    @Bean(name = "founder")

>     @Qualifier(value = "founder")

Reviewer: There's still no explanation of the `@Qualifier` annotation in the text anywhere.

Author: Added notes on Qualifier.

Reviewer: See my comment below about `@Qualifier`.

Reviewer: Also, I think I mentioned it some other comment: **the `@Qualifier` annotation has no effect on `@Bean` methods, as far as I know**! It only has an effect on _parameters_ to those methods (i.e. when we try to wire a bean, not when we define a bean). Please check this and correct all the occurrences of `@Qualifier` in the article if needed.

Author: Moved the explanation to `Overriding Default Bean Name`

Reviewer: I removed the `@Qualifier` annotation on the `@Bean` methods now ... this annotation has no effect and is only confusing.

    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_SINGLETON)
    public Employee founderEmployee() {
        final Employee founder = newEmployee("Scott", "Tiger");
        founder.setDesignation("Founder");
        founder.setDepartment(coreDepartment());
        return founder;
    }

    @Bean(name = "core")
    @Qualifier(value = "core")
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_SINGLETON)
    public Department coreDepartment() {
        return newDepartment("Core");
    }

    @Bean(name = "acme")
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_SINGLETON)
    @Qualifier(value = "acme")
    public Organization acme() {
        final Organization acmeCo = new Organization();
        acmeCo.setName("Acme Inc");
        return acmeCo;
    }
}
```

Here, the `newEmployee()` and `founderEmployee()` methods create an `Employee` bean, `newDepartment()` and `coreDepartment()` methods create a `Department` bean and `acme()` method creats an `Organization` bean. Spring now manages these objects, handling their lifecycle and ensuring proper dependencies.

> ### Understanding Bean Lifecycle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Understanding the Bean Lifecycle

```

Author: Fixed,

4. **Session Scope:** Beans in Session scope have a single instance per HTTP session. Similar to request scope but persists across multiple requests within the same session. Use this for user-specific stateful beans in a web context.

5. **Application Scope:** Beans in Application scope have a single instance per ServletContext. This means a single instance shared across all users/sessions in a web application. Use this for global, stateless beans that should be shared by all users.

6. **Custom Scope:** Besides the standard scopes, Spring allows you to create custom scopes tailored to specific requirements. Custom scopes can range from narrow scopes like thread scope to broader scopes based on business logic.

Choosing the appropriate scope depends on the specific use case and requirements of our beans. Understanding these scopes ensures that our beans are managed effectively, optimizing resource utilization and ensuring the correct behavior of our Spring application.
{{% /info %}}

> ### Overriding Default Bean Name

Reviewer: This section would be a good place to explain the `@Qualifier` annotation, because it's the counterpart of `@Bean(name="foo")`

Author: I have added notes on Qualifier when we used it for the first time in the article.

Reviewer: I saw the box about `@Qualifier`, but it's too early in the article. The reader has just seen the big code example and the next thing they read is about the `@Qualifier` annotation when they haven't even learned what the other annotations do. Can please move the description of `@Qualifier` to here or somewhere else later in the article?

Author: Moved the explanation to Overriding Default Bean Name

Understanding `@Bean` and its related concepts is pivotal in Spring configuration. It not only creates instances but also allows fine-grained control over their lifecycle, scope, and naming conventions, empowering our Employee Management System with Spring-managed components.

## Understanding @Configuration
`@Configuration` is a annotation that marks a class as a source of bean definitions. It allows you to create beans using `@Bean` methods within the class. In our Employee Management System, `@Configuration` organizes the creation of beans, providing a centralized configuration hub.

```java
@Configuration
public class JavaConfigAppConfiguration {
    @Bean
    public Employee employee() {
        return new Employee();
    }

    @Bean
    public Department salesDepartment() {
        return new Department();
    }
}
```

With `@Configuration`, you encapsulate our bean definitions, promoting modularity and enhancing maintainability. Spring ensures that these beans are available for injection wherever needed.

Let us see some of the concrete examples for `@Bean` and `@Configuration`.

> ### Database Configuration with DataSource

Reviewer: I think the examples (datasource, EhCache, Spring Security) are too specific. Readers will get lost if they don't know about that. Instead of these 3 subsections, maybe just extend the JavaConfigAppConfiguration above a bit and explain the concepts along that example.

Author: Agree. There beginners would be overwhelmed with the details. Once they understand the basics, later they can learn these other Spring features.

1. `return http.build()`: Finally, the `http.build()` method is called to build and return the configured `SecurityFilterChain`.

In summary, this configuration enforces access control based on the URL patterns. Requests to "/employees/" require the "USER" authority, requests to "/departments/" and "/organizations/\*\*" require the "ADMIN" authority, and any other requests require authentication. This provides fine-grained access control to different parts of the application based on the user's authorities.

You can see it in action by running the `endpointWhenUserAuthorityThenAuthorized()` unit test in the example code shared on [Github](https://github.com/thombergs/code-examples/blob/master/spring-boot/java-config/src/test/java/io/reflectoring/spring-boot/javaconfig/SecurityConfigurationTest.java#L27).

These advanced examples demonstrate the power of `@Bean` and `@Configuration` in configuring complex components such as database connections, caching mechanisms, and security protocols within a RESTful Employee Management System.

> ## Building Scalable Applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Building Maintainable Applications

```

Author: Fixed to use maintainable.

> In the realm of Spring applications, scalability and maintainability are key considerations. As applications grow, it becomes essential to structure the configuration in a way that's modular and adaptable. Java-based configuration in Spring provides a robust solution, enabling the development of scalable applications through modular configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the realm of Spring applications, maintainability is a key consideration. As applications grow, it becomes essential to structure the configuration in a way that's modular and adaptable. Java-based configuration in Spring provides a robust solution, enabling the development of scalable applications through modular configurations.

```

Author: Fixed it,

   - **Integration vs. Unit Testing:** Adjust configurations to mock external dependencies during unit tests while integrating with actual services during integration tests.

### Advantages of Profiles
   - **Flexibility:** Profiles provide a flexible way to manage configurations for different scenarios without altering the core codebase.
   - **Consistency:** By ensuring consistent configurations within each environment, profiles promote stability and predictability in different stages of the application's lifecycle.
   - **Simplified Deployment:** Easily switch between profiles during deployment, allowing the same artifact to adapt to diverse runtime environments.

Learn more about profiles in our detailed article [One-Stop Guide to Profiles with Spring Boot](https://reflectoring.io/spring-boot-profiles/).
 
👉 **Caution:** Not all scenarios benefit from Spring profiles. Ensure you understand the nuances. For detailed insights, refer to our article on [when and when not to use profiles in Spring applications](https://reflectoring.io/dont-use-spring-profile-annotation/).

> ## Streamlining Java Configuration

Reviewer: This is one of the headers that don't tell me what the section is about. Is there a better, more focused header for this section?

Author: I changed the heading from `Streamlining Java Configuration`  to `Automatic Java Configuration`.

Starters handle complex integrations, ensuring seamless setup.

Example: Using Spring Boot Starter for JPA:
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-data-jpa</artifactId>
</dependency>
```
Including spring-boot-starter-data-jpa simplifies Java Persistence API (JPA) integration. Spring Boot's auto-configuration manages JPA entity managers, data sources, and transaction management.

### Conclusion: Effortless Spring Boot Applications
   - **Boosted Productivity:** `@EnableAutoConfiguration` is at the heart of Spring Boot's philosophy, boosting developer productivity by simplifying setup and reducing configuration overhead.
   - **Maintenance Ease:** Applications configured with auto-configuration are easier to maintain and update, ensuring compatibility with evolving libraries and technologies.

In essence, `@EnableAutoConfiguration` encapsulates the spirit of Spring Boot—making Java configuration easier, more streamlined, and immensely developer-friendly. By leveraging this annotation, developers can focus on crafting robust applications while Spring Boot takes care of the intricate details under the hood.

> ## Managing Properties with Ease

Reviewer: We should remove this section from the article ... it's not JAva Config, it's application properties

Author: OK. Removed property based config.

Now when you do `environment.getProperty("secret.property")` or use `@Value("${secret.property}")` what you get is the decrypted version of that property.

By using `@EnableEncryptableProperties`, you can secure sensitive properties in your Spring Boot application without having to manually decrypt them. This integration simplifies the process of encrypting and decrypting sensitive information, ensuring the security of your application's configuration data.

### Conclusion: Empowering Configurability in Spring Applications
Spring’s PropertySource provides a robust foundation for managing configuration data. By leveraging `PropertySource` and its integrations, developers can ensure that their applications are adaptable, secure, and maintainable. The ability to externalize properties and dynamically adjust configurations not only simplifies the development process but also lays the groundwork for resilient, flexible, and scalable Spring applications.

> ## Externalizing Configuration Settings

Reviewer: Same here, this section doesn't belong in this article.

Author: It is removed along with property based config section.

image: images/stock/0013-switchboard-1200x628-branded.jpg
url: beginner-friendly-guide-to-spring-java-config
---

Welcome to the exciting world of Spring's Java Configuration! Eager to unravel the mysteries of Spring applications? You've come to the right place!

In this comprehensive guide, we'll embark on a journey to demystify Spring's Java-based configuration, simplifying the process for newcomers.

Imagine crafting robust Spring applications with just Java classes, understanding core annotations like `@Bean` and `@Configuration`, and seamlessly managing properties.

We'll explore the art of configuration logic organization, delve into modular setups, and tailor configurations with ease.

By the end, you'll not only grasp the fundamentals but also be equipped to create scalable Spring applications effortlessly.

Let's dive in and transform our Spring development experience!

<a name="example-code" />
{{% github "https://github.com/thombergs/code-examples/tree/master/spring-boot/java-config" %}}

## Spring Configuration: Demystifying the Heartbeat of Spring Applications

> In the vibrant landscape of software development, Spring Configuration stands as the silent orchestrator, harmonizing the elements of Spring applications. At its core, **Spring Configuration is the art and science of setting up a Spring application, defining its components, managing dependencies, and orchestrating their interactions**. It serves as the blueprint, guiding the behavior of our Spring-powered creations.

Reviewer: While I do value your enthusiasm, this language feels a bit "too much". As a reader I want to learn about Spring and I don't expect a motivational speech :). Could you go over the text again and mute the language a bit? It doesn't need to be passionless, but it shouldn't contain lofty sentences that don't contribute to the learning experience.

Author: OK. Sure I will tone down the witty expressions.

Configuration in Spring is all about empowering our applications with context, specifying how beans (Spring-managed objects) are created, wired, and used within the application.

Traditionally, Spring offered XML-based configuration, providing a structured way to define beans and their relationships. In the dynamic landscape of Java and Spring, XML configurations have been replaced by more intuitive, expressive, and Java-centric approaches, showcasing the superior efficiency of Java configuration.

## What Makes Spring Configuration Essential?

> Java-based configuration in Spring is like poetry in code, where you harness the power of plain Java classes and annotations to configure our application. With Java-based configuration, you bid farewell to XML files and embrace the elegance of Java code to define our beans and their relationships.

Reviewer: I don't see an analogy to poetry, to be honest :)

Author: Again, witty expression. It like a poetry in a sense that it expresses intent in concise way (few words). Time to convert poetry into prose. :-)

Author: Toned down witty expressions with plain English. Updated the headings and sub headings to highlight proper structure of the article. That should help the readers to grasp the big picture at a glance from TOC.

> In the upcoming sections, we will unravel the intricacies of Spring's Java Configuration, exploring its core concepts, understanding annotations like `@Bean` and `@Configuration`, and delving into the art of organizing and managing our Spring applications.

Reviewer: This is the 5th or so paragraph that loftily promises that we will "unravel the mysteries" of the "vibrant landscape" ... when comes the actual content? :)

Author: Updated it with plain English that does not over sell.

Let's embark on this journey to demystify Spring's heartbeat and empower our coding endeavors.

{{% info title="Notes: Understanding Beans in Spring Applications" %}}

Excited to dive into the magic of Spring? Let's recap the essentials: beans, IoC, and DI. Join us on this empowering journey, making our Java applications thrive!

> ✍ **BEANS: THE CORE OF SPRING:**

Reviewer: Why not make each of these 3 points its own subsection? They deserve an entry in the table of contents!

Author: Converted bold points into sub headings.

✍ **INVERSION OF CONTROL (IOC) SIMPLIFIED:**
IoC, often referred to as the 'heart' of Spring, is a concept where the control over the object creation and lifecycle is transferred from our application to the Spring container. Imagine our application as a passenger in a self-driving car; you specify the destination, and Spring takes care of the driving, ensuring **our beans are created, configured, and managed without our direct intervention**.

✍ **DEPENDENCY INJECTION (DI) UNVEILED:**
Dependency Injection is like a magic potion in Spring. It's the process where beans receive their dependencies from an external source, typically the Spring container, rather than creating them internally. Picture a chef receiving all the ingredients pre-chopped and organized on the kitchen counter. With DI, our beans are ready to use, making our code cleaner, more modular, and easier to test. **Spring handles the 'injection' of dependencies, ensuring our beans work seamlessly together in our application recipe.**

👉 Unveil the secrets of beans, IoC, and DI in [our detailed article](http://localhost:1313/dependency-injection-and-inversion-of-control/).
{{% /info %}}

## Types of Spring Configuration

> In the vibrant Spring ecosystem, configuring our applications is an art. Spring offers various types of configuration options, each tailored to specific needs.

Reviewer: "vibrant" again ... by now it becomes a bit repetetive :). The first sentence does not contribute to the article content at all, it's just fluff.

Author: Used simple plain English now,

Let's get familiar with them:

1. **XML Configuration:**
   Dive into the classic approach! Configure Spring beans and dependencies using XML files. Perfect for legacy systems and scenarios requiring external configuration.

2. **Annotation-based Configuration:**
   Embrace simplicity! Use annotations like `@Component`, `@Service`, and `@Repository` to define beans. Ideal for small to medium-sized projects, reducing XML clutter.

3. **Java-based Configuration:**
   Embrace elegance! Configure beans with Java classes using `@Configuration` and `@Bean`. Promotes modularity and testability, making our codebase cleaner.

> 4. **Java Configuration with Annotation Scanning:**

Reviewer: Maybe also drop the term "component scanning", because Spring scans for components, and the annotation is called `@ComponentScan`

   Enjoy automation! Combine Java-based configuration with annotation scanning for effortless bean discovery. Boost productivity in large projects.

> 5. **Java Configuration with Property Files:**

Reviewer: This type of "configuration" is different from "Java Config" or "XML Config", because it's about configuration properties, not about "configuring the Spring context". Maybe make that clearer.

   Master flexibility! Externalize configuration properties to property files. Inject values using `@Value` annotation, ensuring adaptability across environments.

Each type caters to specific project demands. Stay tuned as we unravel the nuances, guiding you to choose the perfect configuration style for our Spring endeavors. Get ready to configure Spring like a pro!

## Understanding Core Concepts: @Bean and @Configuration

{{% info title="Use Case: Employee Management System" %}}

> Imagine you're building an Employee Management System, where employees belong to various departments within a company. In this intricate ecosystem, maintaining clean code and modular architecture is crucial.

Reviewer: "In this intricate ecosystem, maintaining clean code and modular architecture is crucial" another sentence that doesn't contribute to the learning.

Feel free to refer to example code shared on [Github](#example-code).

{{% /info %}}
\
Enter Spring's core concepts: `@Bean` and `@Configuration`.

> **Understanding @Bean:**

Reviewer: This deserves its own sub-section.

```java
public class Employee {
    // Employee properties and methods
}

public class Department {
    // Department properties and methods
}

@Configuration
@ComponentScan(basePackages = "io.reflectoring.javaconfig")
public class JavaConfigAppConfiguration {

    @Bean(name = "newEmployee", initMethod = "init", destroyMethod = "destroy")
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_PROTOTYPE)
    @Cacheable(cacheNames = "employeesCache")
    public Employee newEmployee(final String firstName, final String lastName) {
        return Employee.builder().firstName(firstName).lastName(lastName).build();
    }

    @Bean
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_PROTOTYPE)
    public Department newDepartment(final String deptName) {
        final Department department = Department.builder().name(deptName).build();
        acme().addDepartment(department);
        return department;
    }

    @Bean(name = "founder")

>     @Qualifier(value = "founder")

Reviewer: You're not mentioning the `@Qualifier` annotation anywhere in the text. Also, I believe that it has no effect on `@Bean` methods, but instead should be used on method parameters that are injected into `@Bean` methods, to specify which bean of potentially multiple beans to inject.

    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_SINGLETON)
    public Employee founderEmployee() {
        final Employee founder = newEmployee("Scott", "Tiger");
        founder.setDesignation("Founder");
        founder.setDepartment(coreDepartment());
        return founder;
    }

    @Bean(name = "core")
    @Qualifier(value = "core")
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_SINGLETON)
    public Department coreDepartment() {
        return newDepartment("Core");
    }

    @Bean(name = "acme")
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_SINGLETON)
    @Qualifier(value = "acme")
    public Organization acme() {
        final Organization acmeCo = new Organization();
        acmeCo.setName("Acme Inc");
        return acmeCo;
    }
}
```

Here, the `newEmployee` and `founderEmployee` methods create an `Employee` bean, `newDepartment` and `coreDepartment` methods create a `Department` bean and `acme` method creats an `Organization` bean. Spring now manages these objects, handling their lifecycle and ensuring proper dependencies.

> **Understanding Bean Lifecycle:**

Reviewer: This deserves its own sub-section.

4. **Initialization:** The bean is initialized after its properties are set. This involves calling custom initialization methods specified by the developer. If a bean implements the `InitializingBean` interface, the `afterPropertiesSet()` method is invoked. Alternatively, you can define a custom initialization method and specify it in the bean configuration.

5. **In Use:** The bean is now in use, performing its intended functions within the application.

6. **Destruction:** When the application context is closed or the bean is no longer needed, the destruction phase begins. Beans can implement the `DisposableBean` interface to define custom cleanup operations in the `destroy()` method. Alternatively, you can specify a custom destruction method in the bean configuration.

Understanding these stages ensures proper initialization and cleanup of Spring beans, facilitating efficient and well-managed Spring applications.

👉 Unveil the secrets of bean lifecycle in [our detailed article](https://reflectoring.io/spring-bean-lifecycle/).

{{% /info %}}
\

> **Managing Spring Bean Lifecycle with @Bean:**

Reviewer: In general, please don't use bold for headlines. Instead, make it a subsection with a headline.

In the context of the Employee Management System, let’s delve deeper into managing the lifecycle of a Spring bean using `@Bean` methods and related annotations.

**1. Custom Initialization and Destruction Methods:**

```java
public class Employee {

    // Bean properties and methods

    public void init() {
        // Custom initialization logic
    }

    public void destroy() {
        // Custom cleanup logic
    }
}
```

In our configuration class:

```java
@Configuration
public class JavaConfigAppConfiguration {

    @Bean(name = "newEmployee", initMethod = "init", destroyMethod = "destroy")
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_PROTOTYPE)
    @Cacheable(cacheNames = "employeesCache")
    public Employee newEmployee(final String firstName, final String lastName) {
        return Employee.builder().firstName(firstName).lastName(lastName).build();
    }
}
```

> In this example, the `newEmployee` method creates an `Employee` bean. The `initMethod` attribute specifies a custom initialization method, and the `destroyMethod` attribute defines a custom cleanup method. When the bean is created and destroyed, these methods are invoked, allowing you to handle specific lifecycle events.

Reviewer: Please check that all mentions of method names include parentheses for better understandability. `newEmployee()` instead of `newEmployee`

Choosing the appropriate scope depends on the specific use case and requirements of our beans. Understanding these scopes ensures that our beans are managed effectively, optimizing resource utilization and ensuring the correct behavior of our Spring application.
{{% /info %}}
\
**Overriding Default Bean Name:**
By default, the bean name is the same as the method name. However, you can specify a custom name using the name attribute in the `@Bean` annotation.

```java
@Configuration
public class JavaConfigAppConfiguration {

    @Bean(name = "founder")
    @Qualifier(value = "founder")
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_SINGLETON)
    public Employee founderEmployee() {
        final Employee founder = newEmployee("Scott", "Tiger");
        founder.setDesignation("Founder");
        founder.setDepartment(coreDepartment());
        return founder;
    }
}
```

In this example, the bean is named `founder`, allowing specific identification within the application context.

> Understanding `@Bean` and its related concepts is pivotal in Spring configuration. It not only creates instances but also allows fine-grained control over their lifecycle, scope, and naming conventions, empowering our Employee Management System with robust, Spring-managed components.

Reviewer: I wonder how many people land on this article because they searched for the company "Pivotal" :)

        final Cache employeesCache = new Cache(
            new CacheConfiguration("employeesCache", 1000)
                .memoryStoreEvictionPolicy(MemoryStoreEvictionPolicy.LFU)
                .eternal(false)
                .timeToLiveSeconds(60)
                .timeToIdleSeconds(30)
                .diskExpiryThreadIntervalSeconds(0)
                .persistence(
                    new PersistenceConfiguration()
                        .strategy(PersistenceConfiguration.Strategy.LOCALTEMPSWAP)));
        manager.addCache(employeesCache);
        return manager;
    }
}
```

By adding `@EnableCaching` to the configuration class, we activate caching support globally.

In this example, `@Configuration` sets up caching using EhCache, creating a cache named "employeesCache" that expires after an hour. This enhances the application’s responsiveness by reducing database queries.

You can see it in action by running the `employeesAreSame()` unit test in the example code shared on [Github](https://github.com/thombergs/code-examples/blob/master/spring-boot/java-config/src/test/java/io/reflectoring/spring-boot/javaconfig/CacheConfigurationTest.java#L24).

> 👉 You can learn caching in detail by going through our article [Implementing a Cache with Spring Boot](https://reflectoring.io/spring-boot-cache/).

Reviewer: Thanks for linking all those articles!

```java
@Configuration
@ComponentScan(basePackages = "io.reflectoring.javaconfig")
public class JavaConfigAppConfiguration {
    // Configuration and bean definitions using @Bean methods
}

public class JavaConfigApplication {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        AnnotationConfigApplicationContext context 
            = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext(JavaConfigAppConfiguration.class);
        
        // Now you can access beans from the context
        final Employee newEmployee 
            = context.getBean("newEmployee", Employee.class);
        
        // ...
        
        // Close the context when the application is shutting down
        context.close();
    }
}
```

In this example, `JavaConfigAppConfiguration` is a Java configuration class with `@Configuration` and `@ComponentScan` annotations. The `AnnotationConfigApplicationContext` is instantiated with `JavaConfigAppConfiguration.class` as an argument, allowing it to scan the specified packages for annotated components and register them in the application context. You can then retrieve beans from the context and use them in your application.

> {{% info title="Component Scanning in Spring" %}}

Reviewer: You called it "annotation scanning" in the intro. Maybe call it "component scanning" there, too?

6. **Reduced Configuration:** Component scanning significantly reduces configuration overhead. Instead of listing every bean in a configuration file, you can rely on sensible defaults and conventions. This promotes cleaner, more concise configurations.

7. **Ease of Maintenance:** When new components are added or existing ones are refactored, there's no need to update the configuration manually. Component scanning ensures that Spring stays up-to-date with the components in your application.

By leveraging component scanning, developers can focus on writing business logic and structuring their application naturally, allowing Spring to handle the bean registration process automatically. This results in more maintainable, scalable, and readable Spring applications.

👉 You can learn component scanning in detail by going through our article [Component Scanning with Spring Boot
](https://reflectoring.io/spring-component-scanning/).

{{% /info %}}

> ## Building Scalable Applications

Reviewer: "Scalable" is usually associated with "many users, high performance", etc.. What you mean here is probably better described as "Building Maintainable Applications"

In the realm of Spring applications, scalability and maintainability are key considerations. As applications grow, it becomes essential to structure the configuration in a way that's modular and adaptable. Java-based configuration in Spring provides a robust solution, enabling the development of scalable applications through modular configurations.

**Modular Configurations: The Power of Java Classes**

> **1. Organizing Configuration Logic:**

Reviewer: The numbered list here goes across more than a page, so I have forgotten what the list is about when I reach the last element. Again, use sections and sub-sections to structure the article.

## Tailoring Configurations with Profiles

In real-world applications, the same codebase often needs to adapt to various deployment environments, development stages, or specific use cases. Spring provides a powerful mechanism called **Profiles** to handle these different scenarios. Profiles enable developers to customize configurations based on the environment, allowing for seamless transitions between development, testing, and production environments.

**1. Understanding Spring Profiles:**
   - **Defining Profiles:** Spring profiles are defined using `@Profile` annotation on beans or configuration classes, indicating which profiles they are active for.
   - **Activation:** Profiles can be activated through various means, such as environment properties, system properties, or servlet context parameters.

**2. Creating Profile-Specific Configurations:**

>    - **Profile-Specific Beans:** Define beans specific to a profile. For example, a development database configuration bean might differ from the production configuration.

Reviewer: Link to https://reflectoring.io/dont-use-spring-profile-annotation/

Author: We had link to this article profile annotation.

**5. Practical Use Cases:**
   - **Development vs. Production:** Tailor logging levels, database connections, and external service endpoints to match development or production environments.
   - **Testing Scenarios:** Customize configurations for various test scenarios, ensuring accurate and isolated testing of different application features.
   - **Integration vs. Unit Testing:** Adjust configurations to mock external dependencies during unit tests while integrating with actual services during integration tests.

**6. Advantages of Profiles:**
   - **Flexibility:** Profiles provide a flexible way to manage configurations for different scenarios without altering the core codebase.
   - **Consistency:** By ensuring consistent configurations within each environment, profiles promote stability and predictability in different stages of the application's lifecycle.
   - **Simplified Deployment:** Easily switch between profiles during deployment, allowing the same artifact to adapt to diverse runtime environments.

**7. Conclusion: Adaptable and Scalable Configurations:**

>    Spring profiles empower developers to create applications that can seamlessly adapt to diverse deployment environments. By tailoring configurations with profiles, applications become more adaptable, scalable, and maintainable, ensuring a consistent and reliable experience across various scenarios. Utilizing profiles effectively is a key practice in creating robust, environment-aware Spring applications.

Reviewer: Link to https://reflectoring.io/spring-boot-profiles/

Author: Added this link.

   - **Smart Defaults:** It then automatically configures beans, components, and other settings, providing sensible default behaviors.
   
Spring Boot automatically configures essential components like the web server, database connection, and more based on your classpath and the libraries you include.

Example: Minimal Application with Auto-Configuration:
```java
@SpringBootApplication
public class JavaConfigApplication {

}
```
In this example, `@SpringBootApplication` includes `@EnableAutoConfiguration`. This annotation signals Spring Boot to configure the application automatically, setting up defaults based on the classpath.

**2. Customization and Overrides:**
   - **Selective Overrides:** While Spring Boot provides auto-configuration, you can still customize and override these configurations as needed.
   - **Properties-Based Tuning:** Properties in `application.properties` or `application.yml` can fine-tune auto-configured settings.

You can customize auto-configurations using properties. For instance, you can disable a specific auto-configuration by setting a property.

> Example: Disabling a Specific Auto-Configuration:

Reviewer: It's unclear that this content belongs to the list item number 2. This is one reason why very long numbered or bulleted lists don't work. Please rework into a "normal" text format (also in other places).

Lists are for short explanations of an idea, not for structuring text!

Author: Converted the bullets to sub heading to reduce nested lists.

    }
}
```

2. Request Mapping and Dispatching:

Spring Boot sets up default request mappings and dispatcher servlet configurations. It automatically maps incoming `HTTP` requests to the appropriate controller methods based on the `@RequestMapping` or related annotations.

Example:

```java
@RestController
@RequestMapping("/api")
public class MyController {

    @GetMapping("/hello")
    public ResponseEntity<String> hello() {
        // Maps to /api/hello
        return ResponseEntity.ok("Hello, Spring Boot!");
    }
}
```

3. Exception Handling:

Spring Boot provides default exception handling, mapping exceptions to appropriate `HTTP` status codes and error responses. For example, if a method throws an exception, Spring Boot automatically generates a `500` `Internal Server Error` response.

Example:

```java
@RestController
public class MyController {
    @GetMapping("/hello")
    public ResponseEntity<String> hello() {
        // Some logic that might throw an exception
        throw new RuntimeException("Something went wrong!");
    }
}
```

In this case, Spring Boot would automatically handle the exception and send a `500` `Internal Server Error` response to the client.

> 4. Content Negotiation

Reviewer: This doesn't really have anything to do with "Java Config", does it?

Author: Removed it to avoid confusion.

Now when you do `environment.getProperty("secret.property")` or use `@Value("${secret.property}")` what you get is the decrypted version of that property.

By using `@EnableEncryptableProperties`, you can secure sensitive properties in your Spring Boot application without having to manually decrypt them. This integration simplifies the process of encrypting and decrypting sensitive information, ensuring the security of your application's configuration data.

**8. Conclusion: Empowering Configurability in Spring Applications:**
Spring’s PropertySource provides a robust foundation for managing configuration data. By leveraging `PropertySource` and its integrations, developers can ensure that their applications are adaptable, secure, and maintainable. The ability to externalize properties and dynamically adjust configurations not only simplifies the development process but also lays the groundwork for resilient, flexible, and scalable Spring applications.

> ## Seamless External Configuration

Reviewer: As mentioned above, this isn't really what Spring's "Java Config" is about ... it's about "configurartion parameters for your application", not about "configuring your application context"

Author: Removed section on AnnotationConfigApplicationContext
